# Introduction

Concrete durability is intimately linked with cement paste microstructure, specifically; porosity within the cement paste. Pore structure is mainly divided into two main categories: capillary and gel pores and they range from few millimeters into few nano-meters having 70-90% of total porosity in the nano scale. Using machine learning/image processing is useful to identify several physiochemial properties that matter concrete durability. 

There are two broad ways to measure porosity in concrete: Mercury Introsion Porosimetery (MIP), and using imaging techniques focusing on micro and nano X-ray Computed Tomography (XCT). Usually, MIP enables us to detect porosity up to nano scale, but with XCT is pretty difficult to reach that accuracy. However, the former technique needs speciemn preparation and it is hard to conduct, while the latter technique is easy to conduct since it does not need and specimen preparation, but costs a lot of money.

Collecting images with porosity detected by MIP is the first step to provide a usful dataset for future work. However, porosity for images collected by other means such as XCT or scanning electron microscoy will be predicted using machine learning approach which saves time, effort, and money. Secondly, with more information collected such as freezing and thawing resistance, scaling, thermal cracking and other durability issues will be predicted based on the microstructure of any cement paste or even concrete. Moreover, pore structure such as connectivity and tortuosity can be predicted using machine learning/Image processing approach. 

In this project, due to the limited information in the data sets, porosity-related images were only collected and the project was conducted just to predict the porosity for images from a testing dataset. The training set has 200 images with their corresponding porosity values, and the testing set has only 100 images.
